# Diabetic_Patient_Readmission_Rate_Prediction
# Abstract 
The rate of readmission of inpatient diabetic encountered patients depends on a lot of factors such as the age or race of the patient, medications are given to the patient, service quality of the hospital management system and much more. These patients are categorized into 3 divisions of never being readmitted to the hospital, or being readmitted after a period of 30 days or being readmitted within 30 days. The diabetic dataset was first divided into 2 parts – “training dataset” and “testing dataset” keeping the percentage class distribution the same in comparison to the original dataset. Before the training data was every given to the model the data needed to be cleaned and pre-processed and various measures such as treatment of missing values, outlier detection, and removal, categorical data merging, feature dimensionality expansion or reduction and normalization were used.  The pre-processed data was then sent to various types of classifiers to train them for the incoming testing dataset. It was found that an Ensemble Random Subspace kNN Model gave the best F1-score of 0.82 on the testing dataset. It was found that the hospital management services – “time in hospital”, “number of lab procedures”, “admission source id”, ”admission type” and ”discharge disposition” were one of the key factors that lead to patients returning back to the hospital or not. It was also found that the dosage of insulin, age, race, gender and diagnosis 1 also played an important in correctly classifying the inpatient diabetic encounters.  